---
title: 2024!
date: '2023-12-27T21:00:00+02:00'
author: Shadow-Link
layout: post
permalink: /2024/
categories:
    - Games
tags:
    - games
---

Last week, we looked back at 2023. Now, let's turn our gaze toward 2024!

As always, I have many projects swirling around in my head simultaneously. I aim to set a goal for the upcoming year: to finish or release at least one of my projects.

So, what projects do I have in mind for this year?

### Game using OASE

I would like to create a small game using my own engine. I've been contemplating some concepts and am eager to bring those ideas to life.

### Elevating OASE VC to the Next Level

The engine can currently run a basic and _very_ buggy version of the game, and there is still much room for improvement. The aspects I would like to enhance the most are player/vehicle movement, map streaming, and audio.

### Wake-Up Light

For my son, I've developed an Arduino-based wake-up light. You can use your phone to set different times to turn the light on and choose the color that should be used. The various colors indicate different states.

For example:
- Dark blue: Go back to sleep; it's the middle of the night.
- Orange: It's almost time to get out of bed.
- Green: You are allowed to get out of bed.

### III Era Modding YouTube Channel

As someone who began their programming career in the III era modding scene (thanks to Mission Builder!), I've always had a soft spot for III era modding. I've been contemplating a return to it and creating YouTube tutorials about III era modding.

## That's it for this year; see you in 2024!

Some exciting projects to anticipate. I hope to successfully tackle at least one of them.

I wish you all the best for 2024!